# Layouts in Next.js

We already what is this `layout.js`. It's the root component of our `app/` directory.  
Components inside `layout.js` stay on the screen, throughout the whole app.  

A layout doesn't re-render when we naviagte between pages. It only re-renders on a full page reload, since that's the browser starting everything from scratch. It's not something Next.js controls.

Imagine there is a Navbar, and you want it to stay in the app all the time, no matter what page you are on. Just add Navbar component in `layout.js`. Simple as that.

```javascript
import "./globals.css";
import Navbar from "./components/Navbar";

export const metadata = {
  title: "Create Next App",
  description: "Generated by create next app",
};

export default function RootLayout({ children }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <Navbar />
      <body className="min-h-full flex flex-col">{children}</body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

I believe that I already discussed this. So, let's learn something new about layouts.

---

### Nesting of layouts

There's no fixed rule that there should be only one `layout.js`.  
Any folder inside `app/` can have its own `layout.js`.

If there is a route `docs/` and you want to keep a `layout.js` of its own, it's possible.  
Just add a `layout.js` inside the `docs/`. Now, that `layout.js` only applies for the pages inside the `docs/` folder.

---

### Route groups

We know that a folder inside `app` is a route, too.  
Like, if you create a folder called `about`, the app will have a new route `/about`.

But, if you want a folder to not become a route, just be a organizing thing, then you can wrap the folder name in parantheses, and it gets ignored in the URL.

For example, assume you have this file structure:

```
app/
├── movies-folder/
│   ├── movie-posters/
│   ├── movies.js
│   ├── page.js
│   └── layout.js
│
├── page.js
└── layout.js
```
I made this folder `movies-folder` just for organizing the data, not for making a route.  
But, Next.js doesn't care. It creates a route `movies-folder/`.

The route will become something like: `localhost:3000/movies-folder/`.  
But you don't even want `movies-folder` to be a part of the route.

To make Next.js ignore that folder as a route, but still exist to organize data, you can wrap the folder name in parantheses. Then, Next.js will ignore that as a route.

```
app/
├── (movies-folder)/
│   ├── movie-posters/
│   ├── movies.js
│   ├── page.js
│   └── layout.js
│
├── page.js
└── layout.js
```

Now, the route will become something like: `localhost:3000/`.  
The folder `movies-folder` still exists, just not as a route.

---